README.md, before:

# Medical Models OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server

Java Spring Boot OAuth 2.0 authorization server for the Medical Models application.

If you're interested in the architecture of Medical Models at a high level. Look
here - [medical-models-system-documentation](https://github.com/Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-system-documentation).
You'll find system diagrams, descriptions and only one UML diagram!

If you want to see the other services, find them here:

| Service                       | Repo                                                                                                 |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Medical Models Service        | [medical-models-service](https://github.com/Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-service) |
| Medical Models User Interface | [medical-models-ui](https://github.com/Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-ui)           |

## Local Setup

1. Install a Java Development Kit (JDK) of Java 23. For example, you could use [SDKMAN!](https://sdkman.io/) to install
   `23.0.2-amzn` (Amazon Corretto).
2. Clone this repo. For example, to clone using ssh:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-authorization-server.git
```

3. Navigate into the project directory

```bash
cd medical-models-authorization-server
```

4. Install maven dependencies, build the project and run the tests. Note the use of `./mvnw`. This uses a local copy of
   maven specific to this project. You won't need to globally install maven to run this command.

```bash
./mvnw clean install
```

4. Run the application.

```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

5. Navigate to http://localhost:7071/login in a browser to view the medical-models-authorization-service's login page. Clicking "Sign In as…" won't do anything useful until you start medical-models-ui and medical-models-service.
6. To run the full Medical Models application, run the following steps.
7. Start the medical-models-service by following its instructions
   here - https://github.com/Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-service
8. Start the medical-models-ui by following its instructions
   here - https://github.com/Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-ui
9. Navigate to http://localhost:3000 to see the full application running. You should be redirected to a login screen the first time.
10. There are Demo users for each role. Use an incognito browser to log in to different roles to test different workflows.

## Local Development

It is recommended to use an IDE with good support for Java and Spring like IntelliJ Ultimate. This should give you hot
reloading and other features useful for efficient development - https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/spring/.

1. If you would like to run the application from the command line, execute the following steps.
2. Install dependencies and build the project.
```bash
./mvnw clean install
```
3. Run the application.
```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

4. After making a code change, kill the spring boot process, e.g. with ctrl-c in its terminal, and re-run it.

## Tooling

| Tool            | Notes                                                                                                              | Docs                                                         |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| Java            | Robust programming language. High-level, statically typed, just-in-time compiled, memory safe and object oriented. | https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/25/                   |
| Spring          | Inversion of control container for Java.                                                                           | https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/reference/index.html |
| Spring Boot     | Opinionated framework for creating production-grade Java applications.                                             | https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/index.html                |
| Spring Security | Authentication and authorization framework for Java applications.                                                  | https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/index.html  |
| JUnit           | De facto standard for automated testing in Java.                                                                   | https://docs.junit.org/current/user-guide/                   |
| AssertJ         | Rich assertions for JUnit tests.                                                                                   | https://assertj.github.io/doc/                               |
| Thymeleaf       | Server-side template engine for Java.                                                                              | https://www.thymeleaf.org/documentation.html                 |
| Google Guava    | Library of useful collections and utilities for Java.                                                              | https://github.com/google/guava/wiki                         |
| Lombok          | Generates Java boilerplate with annotations.                                                                       | https://projectlombok.org/features/                          |
| Docker Compose  | Useful for running infrastructure dependencies locally. e.g. Databases, Object stores, etc.                        | https://docs.docker.com/compose/                             |

Commit message:

docs: MM-98 Skip test and checkstyle sections. Checkstyle in tooling. (#13)
Reviewed-on: https://gitea.busybunyip.com/medical-models/medical-models-authorization-server/pulls/13
Co-authored-by: JonathonClifford <jono.cliff@gmail.com>
Co-committed-by: JonathonClifford <jono.cliff@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Medical Models OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server

Java Spring Boot OAuth 2.0 authorization server for the Medical Models application.

If you're interested in the architecture of Medical Models at a high level. Look
here - [medical-models-system-documentation](https://github.com/Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-system-documentation).
You'll find system diagrams, descriptions and only one UML diagram!

If you want to see the other services, find them here:

| Service                       | Repo                                                                                                 |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Medical Models Service        | [medical-models-service](https://github.com/Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-service) |
| Medical Models User Interface | [medical-models-ui](https://github.com/Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-ui)           |

## Local Setup

1. Install a Java Development Kit (JDK) of Java 23. For example, you could use [SDKMAN!](https://sdkman.io/) to install
   `23.0.2-amzn` (Amazon Corretto).
2. Clone this repo. For example, to clone using ssh:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-authorization-server.git
```

3. Navigate into the project directory

```bash
cd medical-models-authorization-server
```

4. Install maven dependencies, build the project and run the tests. Note the use of `./mvnw`. This uses a local copy of
   maven specific to this project. You won't need to globally install maven to run this command.

```bash
./mvnw clean install
```

4. Run the application.

```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

5. Navigate to http://localhost:7071/login in a browser to view the medical-models-authorization-service's login page. Clicking "Sign In as…" won't do anything useful until you start medical-models-ui and medical-models-service.
6. To run the full Medical Models application, run the following steps.
7. Start the medical-models-service by following its instructions
   here - https://github.com/Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-service
8. Start the medical-models-ui by following its instructions
   here - https://github.com/Medical-Models-Jonathon-Clifford/medical-models-ui
9. Navigate to http://localhost:3000 to see the full application running. You should be redirected to a login screen the first time.
10. There are Demo users for each role. Use an incognito browser to log in to different roles to test different workflows.

## Local Development

It is recommended to use an IDE with good support for Java and Spring like IntelliJ Ultimate. This should give you hot
reloading and other features useful for efficient development - https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/spring/.

1. If you would like to run the application from the command line, execute the following steps.
2. Install dependencies and build the project.
```bash
./mvnw clean install
```
3. Run the application.
```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

4. After making a code change, kill the spring boot process, e.g. with ctrl-c in its terminal, and re-run it.

### Skip Tests

Failing tests will fail the build. To skip tests when you run the maven build, use the following:
```bash
./mvnw clean install -DskipTests=true
```

### Skip Checkstyle

Checkstyle is configured to fail the build if it detects a violation. To skip checkstyle when you run the maven build, use the following:
```bash
./mvnw clean install -Dcheckstyle.skip=true
```

## Tooling

| Tool            | Notes                                                                                                              | Docs                                                         |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| Java            | Robust programming language. High-level, statically typed, just-in-time compiled, memory safe and object oriented. | https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/25/                   |
| Spring          | Inversion of control container for Java.                                                                           | https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/reference/index.html |
| Spring Boot     | Opinionated framework for creating production-grade Java applications.                                             | https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/index.html                |
| Spring Security | Authentication and authorization framework for Java applications.                                                  | https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/index.html  |
| JUnit           | De facto standard for automated testing in Java.                                                                   | https://docs.junit.org/current/user-guide/                   |
| AssertJ         | Rich assertions for JUnit tests.                                                                                   | https://assertj.github.io/doc/                               |
| Checkstyle     | Generates a report on violations of code style.                                                                    | https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-checkstyle-plugin/index.html |
| Thymeleaf       | Server-side template engine for Java.                                                                              | https://www.thymeleaf.org/documentation.html                 |
| Google Guava    | Library of useful collections and utilities for Java.                                                              | https://github.com/google/guava/wiki                         |
| Lombok          | Generates Java boilerplate with annotations.                                                                       | https://projectlombok.org/features/                          |
| Docker Compose  | Useful for running infrastructure dependencies locally. e.g. Databases, Object stores, etc.                        | https://docs.docker.com/compose/                             |
